In the past 90 days, we managed $414,000
for a B2B SAS client and helped them
scale from zero to $20,000 a day in
YouTube ad spend. In this video, I'm
going to show you five ways of how you
can actually prove your YouTube ads are
working so you can scale confidently. If
you're new to the channel, I'm Sylvia
Perez, the founder of Ad Conversion. We
teach 8,000 plus B2B marketers how to
master ads and we manage $3 million a
month in ad spend for top B2B SAS
brands. So everything B2B and
advertising, that's our jam. You're in
the right place. Okay, so the first way
you can prove your YouTube ads are
working is using a search lift study
inside of Google Ads. So Google Ads
allows you to do some pretty cool lift
studies where they'll basically measure
the influence and the impact of the
awareness of your YouTube ad campaigns.
Now, in order to use a search lift
study, it's not available for everyone.
So if you don't have the access to this
feature, you can find it under the goals
and measurement section. uh you need to
reach out to your Google ads rep to
unlock the feature for you. Now
basically what you can see here is I ran
a search lift study for this client and
we were basically trying to understand
what was the impact of our YouTube ads
campaigns on our branded name. So if
people go to Google and they search our
branded search term and basically we
could find from this search lift study
that our YouTube campaigns drove a 45%
lift in the amount of people searching
our branded terms with a greater than
90% certainty of the lift which is
really cool. So using the search lift
study it can give you a lot of
confidence to understand and measure
that spillover and that influence that
YouTube is having in terms of impacting
the business. One other thing I will
mention too with search lift studies
that I ran into is there's minimum
required budgets. So if you want to get
active on a search lift study, you need
to have a minimum of $10,000 in spend in
a 28-day period. So if you don't have
that much spend yet, just know that this
won't be an option for you. Where these
studies get even cooler is you can break
down your performance to understand
which video ads are driving the most
incremental lift. So in this table here,
I have to blur out the videos for the
sake of my client, but you can see that
I can understand what's the incremental
lift for each one of my videos that have
enough impression data and that served
enough. So for context, like this video
here on the top drove a higher
incremental lift in searches compared to
this video here on the bottom, which is
really cool. So now I can optimize not
just based on view rate or click-through
rate or even conversions. I can optimize
based on incremental lift, which is
really powerful if my goal is to use
YouTube to drive awareness that actually
increases pipeline impact. Okay. The
second way we can measure the impact of
our YouTube campaigns is using a brand
lift study. Brand lift studies, similar
to a search lift study, requires a
minimum of $10,000 in budget per study
that you run. So, for context, in this
example, I ran a study around ad recall.
And I wanted to understand how many
users remember actually seeing our ads.
And I can show you an example of that in
a second. And basically what we can see
here is uh according to the study uh our
ads drove a 2% increase in ad recall.
And I really love how you're able to
segment into ages, genders, devices,
campaigns, videos. So you can get a much
better understanding of like again what
assets, what campaigns are actually
driving the greatest recall. And when
you set up a brand lift study, you do
need a minimum of $10,000 in budget per
study that you run. So, it can get quite
expensive. And you do have a lot of
options in terms of brand lift studies
you can run from ad recall to purchase
intent to awareness. There's a bunch of
different options. And basically what
Google is going to do is they are going
to show that survey in YouTube ads. I'm
sure you probably have seen it. It looks
like this. So this is what the brand
lift study looks like in practice.
People will get a questionnaire when
they're watching YouTube. It'll ask them
to fill out the survey or they can skip
it. And basically you as the advertiser,
you can set uh different preset
questions. So for example, in this one,
this is a survey that is trying to
measure the impact of ad recall. This is
similar to the one that I did. So, we
had my client's name and then we had all
of their competitors listed underneath
to try to understand are people actually
remembering seeing our ads more often,
which is where that 2% increase came
from. You could also do surveys around
purchase intent. So, instead it would
instead of asking which of these brands
have you seen recently, it might ask
something like which of these brands are
you more likely to purchase from? And
then you can have you versus your
competitors and you can start to measure
the impact of purchased and if people
are more likely to purchase from you. So
brand list studies are another great
option for you. If you don't have it,
again, reach out to your Google rep to
unlock this feature. The next way you
can measure the impact of your YouTube
ad campaigns is using self-reported
attribution. So this is where people are
telling you how they found you. So for
example, in ad conversion, uh we have a
multi-step onboarding form that new
students go through and one of the
questions we ask is how did you hear
about ad conversion? And here people can
tell us they can choose from one of
these options. So they can choose
YouTube if more people are hearing about
us from YouTube or they can just write
out exactly what source it is, exactly
where they found from us. And this is
very insightful because you'll start to
see, especially if you're never getting
any leads or anything from YouTube at
all mentioned. And now you're starting
to see people come inbound and more
people are referencing YouTube as the
source of where they heard about you
from. That's very confidence building.
So you have that that assurance that you
can actually get in front of the people
that you want to get in front of and
drive a business impact. So
self-reported attribution, it's one of
the easiest things to do. Highly
recommend it, not just for YouTube, but
just marketing in general. Those
insights are very valuable. I just
wanted to take a quick second and say if
you're loving this video, you're going
to absolutely love our free courses at
conversion.com. uh just come down our
educational path here and you can join
8,000 plus B2B marketers that are
studying our courses on Reddit, Google,
LinkedIn. Uh all of this is for free.
Seriously free. If you don't believe me,
just check out our wall of love here
with all of our reviews from everyone
that's taken our courses. Uh for us,
we're really just trying to build the
go-to place to master B2B ads. So, uh
that is why we do this for free. So, if
you're seriously loving this video, you
like our channel, help us get the word
out there. If you can give it a thumbs
up, that helps us out a lot as a small
channel to reach more audiences. And
again, if you're ready to take things to
the next level, come check us out at
conversion.com. The fourth way you can
measure the impact of your YouTube
campaigns is with direct or view through
conversions. I think a lot of people
don't realize this, but YouTube can
drive conversions uh you know directly
from your campaigns. Now, is it the most
common? No. uh other channels have more
strength in that regard, but it can
happen, especially if you're trying to
run direct response ads or you're trying
to drive people to some sort of offer
that can convert on cold traffic, you
can actually drive direct response
leads. So here you can see in YouTube,
I've got all my YouTube campaigns listed
out and you can see in the conversions
column, I have conversions associated to
my campaigns. So this is very again
confidence building. So I can segment
understand which conversion actions are
getting triggered and then also I have
view through conversions. View through
conversions are very interesting because
viewthrough conversions measure of the
people who saw your ads how many people
later found you and then converted
outside of the ad. So using view through
conversions plus conversions plus the
self-reported attribution plus the
search lift studies, the brand lift
studies, all of this together is
extremely helpful for you to build a
case and to ultimately have that
confidence that YouTube is working for
you as a channel. Lastly, the fifth way
you can measure and know that your
YouTube ads are working is unexplainable
surges. Uh so what I mean by this is you
hear things from your team like we can't
explain it. We have no idea where this
came from, but we got this massive
increase in traffic or we got this
massive influx in demo requests. These
unexplainable
increases of activity that you know just
seem to come out of nowhere. That's also
likely because of your YouTube ad
campaigns. And YouTube is very much this
compounding vehicle. It's it's a bit
slower in the beginning, but over time
it just continues to build and build
momentum as you increase the amount of
people that see your ads and you start
to really build that ad recall in the
market. So, if you're noticing things or
you're hearing things from your team
like, "We just got this massive influx
of traffic and we have no idea where it
came from or um volume picked up
considerably or you're noticing more
conversions coming from branded search
Google campaigns, things like this.
These unexplainable surges are usually a
good sign from YouTube. One last bonus
thing that I want to mention is if
you're very skeptical still about
YouTube ads despite all of the methods
that we talked about, the last maneuver
is to just pause all of your YouTube
campaigns and take a look at your
baselines and see what happens. So
meaning if you're averaging a certain
amount of volume with YouTube on in
terms of demos, organic traffic, direct
traffic, and then just turn it off and
then keep an eye on it over the next 30,
60 days and see what happens. Do you see
demos go down considerably, organic
traffic, direct traffic, if you do, then
that's pretty good indication that
YouTube was contributing a lot more than
you were giving credit for it. I hope
this video was valuable. Be sure to give
this video a thumbs up. It really helps
us grow our reach as a small channel.
And subscribe so you can be notified of
future videos. And when you are ready,
check out adcon conversion.com and join
our community of 8,000 plus B2B
marketers and master ads with our free
courses. Super grateful for you. Thanks
so much. I'll see you in the next one.